Elastic search extensibility (#1097)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/guide/search/extend_elasticsearch.md

     *
     * @var int[]
     */
    public $entries = [];
}
```

`src/Query/ContentTypeGroupFacetBuilder`:

``` php
<?php

declare(strict_types=1);

namespace App\Query\FacetBuilder;

use eZ\Publish\API\Repository\Values\Content\Query\FacetBuilder;

final class ContentTypeGroupFacetBuilder extends FacetBuilder
{
}
```

`src/Query/ContentTypeGroupFacetBuilderVisitor`:

``` php
<?php

declare(strict_types=1);

namespace App\Query\FacetBuilder;

use eZ\Publish\API\Repository\Values\Content\Query\FacetBuilder;
use Ibexa\Platform\Contracts\ElasticSearchEngine\Query\FacetBuilderVisitor;
use Ibexa\Platform\Contracts\ElasticSearchEngine\Query\LanguageFilter;

/**
 * Example (simplified) visitor implementation for ContentTypeGroupFacetBuilder
 */
final class ContentTypeGroupFacetBuilderVisitor implements FacetBuilderVisitor
{
    public function supports(FacetBuilder $builder, LanguageFilter $languageFilter): bool
    {
        return $builder instanceof ContentTypeGroupFacetBuilder;
    }

    public function visit(FacetBuilderVisitor $dispatcher, FacetBuilder $builder, LanguageFilter $languageFilter): array
    {
        return [
            'terms' => [

>                 'field' => 'content_type_group_id_mid',

Reviewer: The example from https://github.com/ezsystems/ezplatform-elastic-search-engine/pull/1 uses `                'field' => 'content_type_group_id_id',`, where is the `mid` coming from?

Reviewer 2: `content_type_group_id` is declared as `MultipleIdentifierField` so it's fine. See https://github.com/ezsystems/ezplatform-elastic-search-engine/blob/44bee6a56e28ad8cec30652822ef1d26cbee3658/src/lib/DocumentMapper/DocumentFactory.php#L425-L429

# Elasticsearch extensibility

!!! enterprise

    ## Indexing custom data

    [Elasticsearch](elastic.md) indexes content and Location data out of the box.
    Besides what is indexed automatically, you can add additional data to the Elasticsearch index.

    To do so, subscribe to one of the following events:

    - `Ibexa\Platform\Contracts\ElasticSearchEngine\Mapping\Event\ContentIndexCreateEvent`
    - `Ibexa\Platform\Contracts\ElasticSearchEngine\Mapping\Event\LocationIndexCreateEvent`

    These events are called when the index is created for the content and Location documents, respectively.

    You can pass the event to a subscriber which gives you access to the document that you can modify.

>     In the following example when an index in created for a content or a Location document,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    In the following example, when an index in created for a content or a Location document,
```

                new StringField()
            );
        }

        public function onLocationDocumentCreate(LocationIndexCreateEvent $event): void
        {
            $document = $event->getDocument();
            $document->fields[] = new Field(
                'custom_field',
                'Custom field value',
                new StringField()
            );
        }

        public static function getSubscribedEvents(): array
        {
            return [
                ContentIndexCreateEvent::class => 'onContentDocumentCreate',
                LocationIndexCreateEvent::class => 'onLocationDocumentCreate'
            ];
        }
    }
    ```

    Remember to register the subscriber as a service:

    ``` yaml
    services:
        App\EventSubscriber\CustomIndexDataSubscriber:
            tags:
                - { name: kernel.event_subscriber }
    ```

    ## Manipulating the query

    You can customize the search query before it is executed.
    To do it, subscribe to `Ibexa\Platform\Contracts\ElasticSearchEngine\Query\Event\QueryFilterEvent`.

    The following example shows how to add an additional Search Criterion to all queries.

>     Note that depending on your configuration, this will impact all search queries,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Note that depending on your configuration, this might impact all search queries,
```

Does the statement call for a note? If so, I'd add a Note section. 
Otherwise you could put the two sentences in one paragraph, and remove the "Note that..." to make it flow better and lessen the ambiguity of "this"

>     Note that depending on your configuration, this will impact all search queries,

Author: ```suggestion
    Depending on your configuration, this might impact all search queries,
```

    use eZ\Publish\API\Repository\Values\Content\Query\Criterion\ObjectStateIdentifier;
    use Ibexa\Platform\Contracts\ElasticSearchEngine\Query\Event\QueryFilterEvent;
    use Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\EventSubscriberInterface;

    final class CustomQueryFilterSubscriber implements EventSubscriberInterface
    {
        public function onQueryFilter(QueryFilterEvent $event): void
        {
            $query = $event->getQuery();

            $additionalCriteria = new ObjectStateIdentifier('locked');

            if ($query->filter !== null) {
                $query->filter = $additionalCriteria;
            } else {
                // Append Criterion to existing filter
                $query->filter = new LogicalAnd([
                    $query->filter,
                    $additionalCriteria
                ]);
            }
        }

        public static function getSubscribedEvents(): array
        {
            return [
                QueryFilterEvent::class => 'onQueryFilter'
            ];
        }
    }
    ```

    Remember to register the subscriber as a service:

    ``` yaml
    services:

>         App\EventSubscriber\CustomQueryFilerSubscriber:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        App\EventSubscriber\CustomQueryFilterSubscriber:
```

            tags:
                - { name: kernel.event_subscriber }
    ```

    ## Custom Search Criterion

>     To provide support for a custom Search Criterion, you need to implement `Ibexa\Platform\Contracts\ElasticSearchEngine\Query\CriterionVisitor`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    To provide support for a custom Search Criterion, you need to implement the Criterion visitor:
```
WDYS?

Author: I'd leave full signature here and below, for easier browsing (otherwise the reader has to look through the code block to find the right line).

        public function __construct($value)
        {
            parent::__construct(null, null, $value);
        }

        public function getSpecifications(): array
        {
            return [
                new Specifications(
                    Operator::IN,
                    Specifications::FORMAT_ARRAY,
                    Specifications::TYPE_STRING
                ),
                new Specifications(
                    Operator::EQ,
                    Specifications::FORMAT_SINGLE,
                    Specifications::TYPE_STRING
                ),
            ];
        }
    }
    ```

    Search Criteria can be valid for both content and Location search.
    To choose the search type, use either `content` or `location` in the tag when registering the visitor as a service:

    ``` yaml
    services:
        App\Query\Criterion\CameraManufacturerVisitor:
            tags:
                - { name: ezplatform.search.elasticsearch.query.content.criterion_visitor }
                - { name: ezplatform.search.elasticsearch.query.location.criterion_visitor }
    ```

    ## Custom Sort Clause

    To create a custom Sort Clause for use with Elasticsearch,

>     implement `Ibexa\Platform\Contracts\ElasticSearchEngine\Query\SortClauseVisitor`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    implement the Sort Clause visitor
```
The code below mentions the whole signature in line 236, can we skip the repetition?

    ``` php
    <?php

    declare(strict_types=1);

    namespace App\Query\SortClause;

    use eZ\Publish\API\Repository\Values\Content\Query;
    use eZ\Publish\API\Repository\Values\Content\Query\SortClause;
    use Ibexa\Platform\Contracts\ElasticSearchEngine\Query\LanguageFilter;
    use Ibexa\Platform\Contracts\ElasticSearchEngine\Query\SortClauseVisitor;

    final class ScoreVisitor implements SortClauseVisitor
    {
        public function supports(SortClause $sortClause, LanguageFilter $languageFilter): bool
        {
            return $sortClause instanceof Score;
        }

        public function visit(SortClauseVisitor $visitor, SortClause $sortClause, LanguageFilter $languageFilter): array
        {
            $order = $sortClause->direction === Query::SORT_ASC ? 'asc' : 'desc';

            return [
                '_score' => [
                    'order' => $order,
                ],
            ];
        }
    }
    ```

    The `supports()` method checks if the implementation can handle the given Sort Clause.
    The `visit()` method contains the logic that translates Sort Clause information into data understandable by Elasticsearch.

>     The `visit()` method takes the Sort Clause visitor, the Sort Clasue itself and the language filter as arguments.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    The `visit()` method takes the Sort Clause visitor, the Sort Clause itself and the language filter as arguments.
```
